# The Effects of Fish Abundance on Algal Blooms
Reina, Braylee, Niko 

## A lot goes into aquatic relationships and effects. However, understanding the different effects that certain organisms have on one another can give insight into population trends for the future, and can even answer many questions regarding how an ecosystem runs. Testing fish and algal population relationships gives us great information on how a certain ecosystem functions, and how it might look in the future. We included water quality as one of our variables because we want to further explore the environmental impact that these two populations and their relationship have on their ecosystem. Our group anticipates that as fish abundance increases, the phytoplankton bloom will increase as well. We believe that there will be a positive correlation between the two. We plan on testing this through utilizing 'R', where we will be able to organize the data into tables and graphs that will show us relationships between our data sets and allow us to draw conclusions about each individual site. The data we will be looking for is what happens to algal bloom and fish abundance when one or the other changes. Additionally, do any properties such as oxygen content change with movement of either population. 

## The data sets we will be using include water quality, phytoplankton, and fish netting data given by NEON to find connections and/or trends amongst three different sites. The water quality data contains information on the oxygen content of the water that we plan on measuring to further investigate the impact that these species relationships has on their ecosystems. Additionally, the fish netting and phytoplankton data contain species abundance over long periods of time. These data sets will give us enoough information for us to draw conclusions and answer our hypothesis confidently. We will be drawing data from Lake Toolik, Lake Crampton, and Prairie Lake respectively. These are three sites that are utilized under the National Ecological Obervatory Network (NEON). NEON colllects all different types of data yearround for people like us to draw from and utilize. The dates we chose to test were from March of 2016, until December of 2021. It will be easier to find more correlations between the data over a longer period of time simply due to the increased amount of data available.

## NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Fish electrofishing, gill netting, and fyke netting counts (DP1.20107.001), RELEASE-2024. https://doi.org/10.48443/kb2e-va82. Dataset accessed from https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20107.001/RELEASE-2024 on February 20, 2024.                                                                   NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Periphyton, seston, and phytoplankton collection (DP1.20166.001), RELEASE-2024. https://doi.org/10.48443/swyk-0p63. Dataset accessed from https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20166.001/RELEASE-2024 on February 20, 2024.                                                                                                        NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Water quality (DP1.20288.001), RELEASE-2024. https://doi.org/10.48443/t7rj-pk25. Dataset accessed from https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20288.001/RELEASE-2024 on February 20, 2024.
